Dear Tom,

 

A New Kenyesian chapter will be an interesting challenge. As discussed earlier, our contribution
 could be to scrutinize NK analyses in terms of primitives. It is a challenge because many primitives are absent
 or somehow implicit in those analyses. If we take that route, in order to be successful, we would need to fill 
 in persuasive primitives that are not seen as being ‘cooked up’.

 

Here is a couple of possible issues and inspirational papers.

 

‘Non-explosive’ Taylor rules versus ‘sophisticated’ monetary policies

 

A frequent issue in NK analyses of monetary policy is whether specified Taylor rules are explosive or not.
 For someone steeped in models with micro foundations, this question does not appear well posed. What is going 
 on in an economy where the Taylor rule is explosive? In contrast, Atkeson, Chari and Kehoe (2010) constitute an 
 example of more meaningful exchanges on monetary policy.

 

As briefly discussed in RMT4 section 27.4.3 (and in RMT3), Atkeson et al (2010) “extend 
the analysis [of Bassetto (2002)] to a monetary economy …”. The section ends with the 
intriguing observation that the models discussed “share the same key assumption that a government can fully
commit to its policy or strategy. In chapters 24 and 25, we study credible government policies – policies that a 
government would like to enact under all circumstances.”

 

Thus, a criticism and understanding of some rather mechanical issues raised in NK analyses, and then
 contrasted to the exciting analyses that arise when the primitives are fleshed out, could be a very useful
 contribution to the appraisal of NK analyses.

 

 

Forward guidance puzzle

 

As we have also discussed, a framework with explicit primitives could help to dissect recent
 exchanges on the forward guidance puzzle, e.g. to sort out from where all the extra consumption is coming. 
 Besides inspiring us, the Fahri-Werning NBER working paper (2017, no. 23281) will most likely provide us with key references.   

 


Forward and backward looking equations

 

Interpreting under what circumstances and mechanics, key equations are depicted 
to be forward and backward looking in various NK analyses (such as the Phillips curve).
 I sense simplifications here that might benefit from some illumination.

 

 

We have several interesting undertakings. Seb and Victoria are doing a great job on the HLT framework, which
 promises to serve as a useful vehicle for advancing time averaging (and its pending manifestations after recent 
 and ongoing social security reforms). I am also making headway on our MBA text.

 

Best wishes,

Lars