
That’s great to enlist yet another student population, now at Shenzhen, for us to continue ‘test driving’ and improving upon RMT.

 

I am also getting gung ho about a New Keynesian chapter. The concept of ‘forward guidance’ or history-dependent policy espoused by
 researchers like Woodford seems to offer a perfect laboratory for an autopsy of New Keynesian models. It will be great to assume the 
basic production technology used by e.g. McKay, Nakamura and Steinsson. Without physical capital, the only state variable are prices set in the past.

 

A working title that comes to mind is “you are better off today by promising to shoot yourself in the foot tomorrow” 
(rivalling a past working title, “the wild goose chase for a high IES at the intensive margin”.) 
Of course, a working title is just meant as an inspiration for our pedagogical endeavor, while, as you have emphasized,
 the resulting insights must be conveyed as professionally as possible (like in the case of our RMT inquiries into FTPL).

 

If we can pull off an insightful revelation of the New Keynesian forces at work, it could become a real social service. 
Actually, there is no other magic than laying bare the primitives. For example, we could help to sort out parts of McKay et al. 
that are confusing such as:

“The main difference between this model [Section II] and the model discussed in Section I is the fact that markets are incomplete.
 If we modified this model to have complete 
markets and then linearized the equilibrium conditions, we would get the model in Section I.”

Would we? Not really. We’ll demonstrate that by taking apart the ingredients behind the dashed step curve 
in their Figure 3 (referring to the “complete markets economy”). The modern IS-LM curves underlying that curve have simply 
left out how firms constrained by Calvo price setting would be struggling to undo the government policy trying to reduce 
their markups (for an arbitrarily long period of time). That latter force is obviously something that could not be ignored and must 
play a major role in their incomplete-market-economy equilibrium computations, as depicted by the solid line in Figure 3.

 

In short, our analysis will properly decompose what can be attributed to the authors’ sole focus on 
the incompleteness of markets faced by households, and us bringing out a key to why the extra output is 
forthcoming at all, i.e., how the government policy leads to depressed markups (plus untangling McKay et al.’s 
additional assumption of redistribution across agents arising from their postulated debt and tax policy).

 

Along the same lines, we can lay bare the dynamics of Eggertsson and Woodford’s modern
 version of the IS-LM curves in their early Brookings paper from 2003.

 

This would indeed be a very meaningful addition to RMT5.

 

Enjoy your teaching and revising of RMT in Shenzhen,

Lars 

