A promising recent development is that primitives have started to replace the ‘modern incarnations of IS and LM curves’. An early good example of the two approaches is Eggertsson and Woodford (Brookings 2003) who first establish an irrelevance proposition for the types of assets in open-market operations in an “explicitly intertemporal equilibrium model … more detailed in several senses than that used in subsequent sections to characterize optimal policy.” It is the latter type of analysis (based on modern incarnations of IS and LM curves) that our New Keynesian chapter would like to shed light on. (Such as Eggertsson and Woodford’s early analysis of “forward guidance”, even though the authors do not use that term.)  

To illustrate what I have in mind, I have sketched on an exposition of McKay, Nakamura and Steinsson (AER 2016, pp. 3133-3158) analysis under Fahri and Werning’s (NBER wp 23281) assumption “that prices and wages are fully rigid. This allows us to follow McKay et al. by focusing on changes in the real interest rate path on consumption.” Under that assumption, my simple exposition of McKay et al. brings out explicitly how the extra output under “forward guidance” materializes.

Just a warning: this is just an illustration of what I hope that our new Keynesian chapter could accomplish. The challenge remains (for which I yet don’t see any solution) to lay bare the key dynamics arising from rigid prices and the imposed laws of motion for monetary policy (coming from a Taylor rule, or what have you).

Anyway, according to that vision, a successful new Keynesian chapter would reveal the primitives (or the lack thereof) behind explosive dynamics of inflation and output (see e.g., Carlstrom, Fuerst and Paustian (JME 76, 2015, pp. 230-243)) and the magic of forward guidance (as in the above analysis of Eggertsson and Woodford). Our revelations might show kinship to Obstfeld and Rogoff’s reasoning around hyperinflation and Atkeson, Chari and Kehoe’s notion of sophisticated policy.

 